\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@include version.texi
@include plugin.texi
@setfilename @value{PLUGIN}.info
@settitle @value{PLUGIN} @value{VERSION}

@c Define a new index for options.
@defcodeindex op
@c Combine everything into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the
@c concept index).
@syncodeindex op cp
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for @value{PLUGIN} (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).

Copyright @copyright{} @value{YEAR} @value{AUTHOR}.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying
@c If your manual is published on paper by the FSF, it should include
@c the standard FSF Front-Cover and Back-Cover Texts, as given in
@c maintain.texi.

@comment  @dircategory Basics
@comment  @direntry
@comment  * Hello: (hello).               Hello, GNU world.
@comment  @end direntry

@titlepage
@title @value{PLUGIN}
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author @value{AUTHOR} (@email{@value{EMAIL}})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@comment  @node Top
@comment  @top GNU Hello

This manual is for GNU Hello (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which prints a friendly greeting (and serves as an example GNU package).
@end ifnottex

@node Top
@top Skeleton plugin for wasora

@menu
* Overview::
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview
@anchor{#overview}
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Donec a diam lectus. Sed sit amet ipsum mauris. Maecenas congue ligula ac quam viverra nec consectetur ante hendrerit. Donec et mollis dolor. Praesent et diam eget libero egestas mattis sit amet vitae augue. Nam tincidunt congue enim, ut porta lorem lacinia consectetur. Donec ut libero sed arcu vehicula ultricies a non tortor. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean ut gravida lorem. Ut turpis felis, pulvinar a semper sed, adipiscing id dolor. Pellentesque auctor nisi id magna consequat sagittis. Curabitur dapibus enim sit amet elit pharetra tincidunt feugiat nisl imperdiet. Ut convallis libero in urna ultrices accumsan. Donec sed odio eros. Donec viverra mi quis quam pulvinar at malesuada arcu rhoncus. Cum sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. In rutrum accumsan ultricies. Mauris vitae nisi at sem facilisis semper ac in est.

@comment  @node GNU Free Documentation License
@comment  @appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@comment  @include fdl.texi

@comment  @node Concept index
@comment  @unnumbered Concept index

@comment  @printindex cp

@bye
